Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that usually cause mild to moderate upper-respiratory tract illnesses, like the common cold. 
However, three new coronaviruses have emerged from animal reservoirs over the past two decades to cause serious and widespread illness and death.
    
There are hundreds of coronaviruses, most of which circulate among such animals as pigs, camels, bats and cats. Sometimes those viruses jump to humans—called a spillover event—and can cause disease. 
Four of the seven known coronaviruses that sicken people cause only mild to moderate disease.
Three can cause more serious, even fatal, disease. SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) emerged in November 2002 and caused severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
That virus disappeared by 2004. Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is caused by the MERS coronavirus (MERS-CoV). 
Transmitted from an animal reservoir in camels, MERS was identified in September 2012 and continues to cause sporadic and localized outbreaks. 
The third novel coronavirus to emerge in this century is called SARS-CoV-2.
It causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which emerged from China in December 2019 and was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020.

Building on previous research on SARS and MERS, NIAID scientists and grantees are well positioned to rapidly develop COVID-19 diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines. 
These projects include conducting basic research to understand how the virus infects cells and causes disease, and what interventions can prevent and stop the spread of disease.

People can catch coronavirus from others who are infected, even if they don't have any symptoms. 
This happens when an infected person sneezes or coughs, sending tiny droplets into the air. These can land in the nose or mouth of someone nearby.

Some even smaller droplets can linger in the air for minutes to hours. These are called aerosols. People send aerosols into the air when they talk or breathe.
Aerosols can travel on air currents away from where they started. So coronavirus sometimes can spread by aerosols. 
This is more likely to happen when an infected person spends a long time indoors, in a space with poor ventilation.

e COVID 19 survive over the surface object up to 8 to 10 hours.

People also might get infected if they touch an infected droplet on a surface and then touch their own nose, mouth, or eyes

When a person sneezes or cough, droplets spread in the air or fall on the ground
and nearby surfaces.
If another person is nearby and inhales the droplets or touches these surfaces
and further touches his face, eyes or mouth, he or she can get an infection.
If the distance is less than 1 meter from the infected person.

The first case of novel coronavirus was identified in Wuhan, Hubei

Mild Symptoms of Novel coronavirus are Fever, Cough, Shortness of breath

There is no specific treatment for disease caused by a novel coronavirus.
However, many of the symptoms can be treated and therefore treatment based on
the patient’s clinical condition. Moreover, supportive care for infected persons
can be highly effective.

preventives measures of covid19 are:
Wash your hands regularly with soap and water alcohol based sanitizer can use
when soap with water not available
Don't touch eyes mouth and nose with unclean hands
Keep one distance from other who is suspected follow no touch greeting

There is no such evidence for spreading of covid19 through food.

you can protect yourself fromsStandard recommendations to reduce exposure to and transmission of a range of
illnesses include maintaining basic hand and respiratory hygiene, and safe food
practices and avoiding close contact, when possible, with anyone showing
symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.

some coronaviruses can be transmitted from person to person, usually after
close contact with an infected patient, for example, in a household workplace, or
health care centre.

COVID-19 occur in all age groups.
Coronavirus infection is mild in children.
Older person and persons with pre-existing medical conditions are at high risk
to develop serious illness.

Coronavirus is a large family of viruses.It belongs to the family of Nidovirus. Illness ranging from the common cold to
more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
A novel coronavirus (cov) is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.
